require/import vs require/include in PHP Coding Standards Documentation. - Fix for #143 (#144)
WordPress/wpcs-docs: wordpress-coding-standards/php.md

Text that goes into HTML or XML attributes should be escaped so that single or double quotes do not end the attribute value and invalidate the HTML, causing a security issue. See [Data Validation](https://developer.wordpress.org/plugins/security/data-validation/) in the Plugin Handbook for further details.

### Writing require/include statements

> Because `require[_once]` and `include[_once]` are language constructs, they do not need parentheses around the path, so those shouldn't be used. There should only be one space between the path and the require/include keywords.

Reviewer: I don't think the order needs to change here as the paragraph directly below it points out that `require` should be preferred over `include`.

Not a blocker though.

Author: I've changed this for consistency, I agree that it is redundant, but my OCD want to have a consistent order throughout the file. I don't have hard feelings about it either, so if you disagree we can as well omit this change.

Author: For consistency I would prefer this, also this will emphasize require over include.
But as mentioned, this is mostly personal preference, so in the end your choice.

> It is _strongly recommended_ to use `require[_once]` for unconditional includes. When using `include[_once]`, PHP will throw a warning when the file is not found but will continue execution, which will almost certainly lead to other errors/warnings/notices being thrown if your application depends on the file loaded, potentially leading to security leaks, or result in silent malfunctions which are hard to track down. For that reason, `require[_once]` is generally the better choice as it will throw a `Fatal Error` if the file cannot be found.

Reviewer: I'm not sure the addition adds value in this way and it distracts from/downplays the point about the risk of security leaks.

Errors are already mentioned earlier in the sentence. I'm open to rephrasing that part, but the way it is phrased now, the "For that reason" at the start of the next sentence would predominantly apply to the "silent malfunctions", while it is - predominantly - about the risk of security leaks.

Author: You're right, after reading it again it is kind of redundant with "it will throw a `Fatal Error` if the file cannot be found."

I'll remove it :)

[/alert]

[info]

> Note that, unless you have implemented [autoloading](https://www.php.net/manual/en/language.oop5.autoload.php), the `use` statement won't automatically load referenced classes. You'll either need to set up autoloading or load the file containing the class using a `require/include` statement, for the imported classes to be loaded when used. Autoloading is only applicable to classes; for functions and constants, you must always use `require` or `include`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that, unless you have implemented [autoloading](https://www.php.net/manual/en/language.oop5.autoload.php), the `use` statement won't automatically load referenced classes. You'll either need to set up autoloading or load the file containing the class using a `require/include[_once]` statement. Autoloading is only applicable to classes; for functions and constants, you must always use `require[_once]` or `include[_once]`.
```

Author: I definitely like the added [_once] in the new sentence. I'll already apply that second part.

I am personally unsure about the `require/include[_once]`.

I personally read it as "'require/include` statement", and due to that "statement" I included the optional `_once` for both. 
If you want to make it clear, I personally would suggest:

[...] or load the file containing the class using `require[_once]` or `include[_once]`. [...]

Imho that improves readability. Otherwise I personally would keep `require/include`.

Your thoughts?

Author: @jrfnl I've added the before mentioned change. And changed order to alphabetical (first include then require) this matches the paragraph on "Writing include/require statements" in lines 81-83 of the same file.

Let me know your thoughts.

Reviewer: The order was intentional - `require` should generally be preferred over `include`, which is why it was mentioned first.

Author: @jrfnl I agree with that point. What do you think about adjusting the other appearance of include/require to require/include, to match the same idea?

Reviewer: I'd need to look at the complete doc to be sure (on the road now, so can't look), but in principle, I'd be open to such a change.

Author: @jrfnl I've [updated the order](https://github.com/WordPress/wpcs-docs/pull/144/commits/e520d9e02f1761b3ade93c5f0753882335fa5775), and I've added a subsentence to the documentation in the upper paragraph. My experience showed that `include` statements can result in silent malfunctions, which are a pain to track down. If you disagree adding this, I'm absolutely fine to omit that.

> Note that, unless you have implemented [autoloading](https://www.php.net/manual/en/language.oop5.autoload.php), the `use` statement won't automatically load referenced classes. You'll either need to set up autoloading or load the file containing the class using `require[_once]` or `include[_once]` statement, for the imported classes to be loaded when used. Autoloading is only applicable to classes; for functions and constants, you must always use `require[_once]` or `include[_once]`.

Reviewer: There seems to be some confusion in this sentence between singular and plural - "load referenced classes" versus "the file containing the class".

I think this still needs some finetuning.

Also, while I understand the change from "whatever is being imported" to "referenced classes", it disregards that more can be imported via a `use` statement, including namespaces.

```suggestion
Note that, unless you have implemented [autoloading](https://www.php.net/manual/en/language.oop5.autoload.php), the `use` statement won't automatically load whatever is being imported. For OO constructs, you'll either need to set up autoloading or load the file(s) containing the OO declaration(s) using `require[_once]` or `include[_once]` statements.
Autoloading is only applicable to OO constructs; for functions and constants, you must always use `require[_once]` or `include[_once]`.
```

This may need a check how OO constructs are referred to elsewhere in the document - I'm not sure we make it explicit that this means "classes, interfaces, traits and enums" and/or whether that needs to be repeated.

Also, the above is still confusing if read strictly with a technical mindset, as autoloading === loading the file containing the OO declarations using `require[_once]` or `include[_once]` statements. It is just a way of doing that "just in time"/only when the file is needed.
